module acem
   ! provides acer for NJOY2016
     use locale
     implicit none

contains

   subroutine acer
   !--------------------------------------------------------------------
   !
   ! Prepare a data library for MCNP,
   ! the Los Alamos continuous energy Monte Carlo code.
   !
   !    --- continuous (fast) data ---
   !
   ! Reaction cross sections are reconstructed on the grid of the
   ! total cross section from the input pendf tape (assumed to be
   ! linearized and unionized).  Redundant reactions (except for
   ! MT1, MT452, and reactions needed for photon yields) are
   ! removed.  MT18 is considered redundant if MT19 is present.
   ! Angular distributions are converted into either 32 equally
   ! probable bins, or into cummulative probability distributions.
   ! Tabulated energy distributions are converted into "law 4"
   ! probability distributions.  Analytic secondary-energy
   ! distributions are converted into their ACE formats.
   ! Coupled energy-angle distributions (File 6) are converted
   ! into ACE laws.  The old format supports law44 for tabulated
   ! data with Kalbach systematics, law67 for angle-energy data,
   ! and law66 for phase space.  The newer format adds law61 with
   ! with cummulative angle distributions for Legendre or tabulated
   ! distributions (see newfor).  All photon production cross
   ! sections are combined on the cross section energy grid.
   ! If provided, multigroup photon production data is summed
   ! and converted into a set of equally probable emission
   ! energies for each input group.  Detailed photon production
   ! data can be generated directly from Files 12, 13, 14, 15,
   ! and 16 from the input ENDF tapes and written out using the
   ! "law 4" cummulative energy distribution format.
   !
   !    --- thermal data ---
   !
   ! The data from the pendf tape as prepared by the thermr
   ! module is read in.  Inelastic and incoherent elastic cross
   ! sections are stored directly.  Coherent elastic cross
   ! sections are converted to a cummulative "stair step" form
   ! and stored.  The angular representation for incoherent
   ! elastic is stored directly.  None is needed for coherent
   ! elastic.  The incoherent inelastic energy distributions
   ! are converted into probability bins with the equally
   ! probable angles left unchanged.  The bins can have equal